# Backend Solution to the Given Programming Problem

### Initial Project Generation

There are a number of ways a project like this could have stared.
 * Completely empty project
 * Or using a generator:
 
    * [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech/) which has a wizard that would let you generate code & components.
    * [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) **(selected)**  which has an online wizard that
  lets you select which parts of springboot you'd like to pull, what language, etc.  
  
_I selected Spring Initialr because it is smaller, helping identify what code I wrote more clearly_

### Project Scope
  Given that this is a programming demonstration, there are a number of real world concerns that 
  are ignored -- **but you would not ignore in a real application**
  
     * Users & Security
     * Data Persistence
     * Error Handling
     * Testing at the various layers (Unit & Integration Testing)
     * Automatic Builds/Deployment & Alerting on Failures
     * Deployment & Runtime Environmental concerns (what environment is this running in)
     * Logging & Perfomance monitoring/tuning     
     * Etc.
     
  Out of necessity & time constraints this "solution" ignores most of the above concerns.
  
  It does present some unit testing the service layer (which has the complexity of the algorithm), 
  and not say the API calls (which I did interactively while developing the frontend). I also put
  in the very basics of how exception handling can be done. 
  
  Also, because data persistence is so common, I used the interface/model of the SpringData pageable/page
  objects even though there is no database or actual persistence concerns in this solution. _This
  did change a little the signature of some methods, but that's a minor concern._
  
### Implementation Decisions
  
  * **Phone Number Representation** -- what format(s) should be accepted as input for the phone?
      I could have chosen just one.  But for User Experience, most people will type in 
      some form that is clear to them.  The UI demonstrates the pattern, but the chosen solution
      allows common variations.  Those possible options could have been constrained further either to 
      exactly 1 format, or a few more exact patterns.   
       
      That said, I went I consider the best experience for the user, and as the intent was to 
      generate alphanumeric output, I allowed alphanumeric input.
      
      For example all the following work:
           
      *  5551212
      *  555-1212
      *  (555) 555-1212
      *  555 555 1212
      *  JKL JJJ 1212   
     
      
  * **Validation** - the backend (as it should if possibly exposed) revalidates input from the frontend
    even though (from a non-hacking/error-free world) it was already validated.
    
  * **Algorithm** - The main crux of the problem is generating all the variation of the output.
    We need to generate the variations for which some phone numbers there are none (all 1s),
    but for others (more realistic) there are a number of possible variations.  A strict ordering
    was chosen, allowing us to algorithmically determine where in the sequence a page would start.
    
    * The current implementation doesn't allow us to change sort order.
    * However, generation of the phone options at the correct page
     is fast and has no significant memory usage.
    
  * **Follow on** 
    There are of course more things that could be done -- for example all the things 
    excluded (by choice/time-constraint) from the project scope.  We could also 
    * add sort order  
    * remove problematic numbers from the solution
      * the number 0 and O look similar and probably should not be used
      * certain combinations of letters maybe should be blocked / not used.   
    * etc.
  


### Reference Documentation _(Generated by Spring Initialzr)_
For further reference, please consider the following sections:

* [Official Gradle documentation](https://docs.gradle.org)
* [Spring Boot Gradle Plugin Reference Guide](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.2.6.RELEASE/gradle-plugin/reference/html/)
* [Spring Web](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.2.6.RELEASE/reference/htmlsingle/#boot-features-developing-web-applications)

### Guides _(Generated by Spring Initialzr)_
The following guides illustrate how to use some features concretely:

* [Building a RESTful Web Service](https://spring.io/guides/gs/rest-service/)
* [Serving Web Content with Spring MVC](https://spring.io/guides/gs/serving-web-content/)
* [Building REST services with Spring](https://spring.io/guides/tutorials/bookmarks/)

### Additional Links _(Generated by Spring Initialzr)_
These additional references should also help you:

* [Gradle Build Scans – insights for your project's build](https://scans.gradle.com#gradle)

